models/official/resnet/README.md, before:

# ResNet-50 on TPU

## Prerequisites

### Setup a Google Cloud project

Follow the instructions at the [Quickstart Guide][quickstart-guide] to get a GCE
VM with access to a Cloud TPU.  It is also recommended that you try the [Cloud
TPU ResNet tutorial][resnet-tutorial], which covers both the quickstart and
training of the ResNet algorithm.

[quickstart-guide]: https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/quickstart
[resnet-tutorial]: https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/tutorials/resnet

To run this model, you will need:

* A GCE VM instance with an associated Cloud TPU resource
* A GCS bucket to store your training checkpoints (the "model directory")
* (Optional): The ImageNet training and validation data preprocessed into
  TFRecord format, and stored in GCS.

### Formatting the data

The data is expected to be formatted in TFRecord format, as generated by [this
script][imagenet-download-format-as-tfrecord].

If you do not have ImageNet dataset prepared, you can use a randomly generated
fake dataset to test the model. It is located at
`gs://cloud-tpu-test-datasets/fake_imagenet`.

[imagenet-download-format-as-tfrecord]: https://github.com/tensorflow/tpu/blob/master/tools/datasets/imagenet_to_gcs.py

## Training the model

Train the model by executing the following command (substituting the appropriate
values):

```
python resnet_main.py \
  --tpu=$TPU_NAME \
  --data_dir=$DATA_DIR \
  --model_dir=$MODEL_DIR
```

`$TPU_NAME` is the name of the TPU node, the same name that appears when you
run `gcloud compute tpus list`, or `ctpu ls`.  (When using the shell
created by `ctpu up`, this argument may not be necessary.)

`$MODEL_DIR` is a GCS location (a URL starting with `gs://` where both the GCE
VM and the associated Cloud TPU have write access, something like `gs://userid-
dev-imagenet-output/model`.  (TensorFlow can't create the bucket; you have to
create it with `gsutil mb <bucket>`.)  This bucket is used to save checkpoints
and the training result, so that the training steps are cumulative when you
reuse the model directory.  If you do 1000 steps, for example, and you reuse the
model directory, on a subsequent run, it will skip the first 1000 steps, because
it picks up where it left off.

`$DATA_DIR` is a GCS location to which both the GCE VM and associated Cloud TPU
have read access, something like `gs://cloud-tpu-test-datasets/fake_imagenet`.
This location is expected to contain files with the prefixes `train-*` and
`validation-*`.  The former pattern is used to match files used for the training
phase, the latter for the evaluation phase.

Each file is a series of `TFExample` records.  In the case of ResNet-50,
the `TFExample` records have a specific format, as follows:

```python
keys_to_features = {
    'image/encoded': tf.FixedLenFeature((), tf.string, ''),
    'image/format': tf.FixedLenFeature((), tf.string, 'jpeg'),
    'image/class/label': tf.FixedLenFeature([], tf.int64, -1),
    'image/class/text': tf.FixedLenFeature([], tf.string, ''),
    'image/object/bbox/xmin': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/bbox/ymin': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/bbox/xmax': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/bbox/ymax': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/class/label': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.int64),
}
```

The training and validation data can also be sourced from Cloud Bigtable:

```
python resnet_main.py \
  --tpu=$TPU_NAME \
  --model_dir=$MODEL_DIR \
  --bigtable_project=$PROJECT \
  --bigtable_instance=$INSTANCE \
  --bigtable_table=$TABLE
```

In this case, the `TFExample` records are stored one per row in a Bigtable.
Categories of data are arranged by row prefix, and the rows within that prefix
arranged by zero-filled indexes, e.g. `train_0000003892`.)

You can also specify the following arguments when sourcing data from Bigtable,
though they already have the right defaults for ResNet-50:

```
  --bigtable_train_prefix=train_ \        # row prefix for training rows
  --bigtable_eval_prefix=validation_ \    # row prefix for evaluation rows
  --bigtable_column_family=tfexample \
  --bigtable_column_qualifier=example
```

Note that even when sourcing input data from Bigtable, `$MODEL_DIR` must
still be a GCS location.

### Project and Zone

If you are not running this script on a GCE VM in the same project and zone as
your Cloud TPU, you will need to add the `--project` and `--zone` flags
specifying the corresponding values for the Cloud TPU you'd like to use.

This will train a ResNet-50 model on ImageNet with 1024 batch size on a single
Cloud TPU. With the default flags on everything, the model should train to
above 76% accuracy in around 17 hours (including evaluation time every
`--steps_per_eval` steps).

You can launch TensorBoard (e.g. `tensorboard -logdir=$MODEL_DIR`) to view loss
curves and other metadata regarding your training run.

> Note: if you launch TensorBoard on your GCE VM, be sure to configure either
> [SSH port forwarding][ssh-port-fwd] or [SOCKS proxy over SSH][socks-proxy] to
> connect to your GCE VM **securely (recommended)**.
>
> Alternatively, you can modify your GCE firewall rules to open a port, but this
> is **not recommended** as it enables **insecure** world-wide access for
> everyone.

[ssh-port-fwd]: https://cloud.google.com/solutions/connecting-securely#port-forwarding-over-ssh
[socks-proxy]: https://cloud.google.com/solutions/connecting-securely#socks-proxy-over-ssh

## Understanding the code

For more detailed information, read the documentation within each file.

* [`imagenet_input.py`](imagenet_input.py): Constructs the `tf.data.Dataset`
  input pipeline which handles parsing, preprocessing, shuffling, and batching
  the data samples.
* [`resnet_main.py`](resnet_main.py): Main code which constructs the
  TPUEstimator and handles training and evaluating the model.
* [`resnet_model.py`](resnet_model.py): ResNet model code which constructs the
  network via modular residual blocks or bottleneck blocks.
* [`resnet_preprocessing.py`](resnet_preprocessing.py): Useful utilities for
  preprocessing and augmenting ImageNet data for ResNet training. Significantly
  improves final accuracy.

## Additional notes

### About the model and training regime

The model is based on network architecture presented in [Deep Residual Learning
for Image Recognition](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385) by Kaiming He, et. al.

Specifically, the model uses post-activation residual units for ResNet-18, and
34 and post-activation bottleneck units for ResNet-50, 101, 152, and 200. There
are a few differences to the model and training compared to the original paper:

* The preprocessing and data augmentation is slightly different. In particular,
  we have an additional step during normalization which rescales the inputs
  based on the stddev of the RGB values of the dataset.
* We use a larger batch size of 1024 (by default) instead of 256 and
  linearly scale the learning rate. In addition, we adopt the learning rate
  schedule suggested by [Accurate, Large Minibatch SGD: Training ImageNet in 1
  Hour](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02677) and train for 90 epochs.
* We use a slightly different weight initialization for batch normalization in
  the last batch norm per block, as inspired by the above paper.
* Evaluation is performed on a single center crop of the validation set rather
  than a 10-crop from the original paper.

### Training/evaluating/predicting on CPU/GPU

To run the same code on CPU/GPU, set the flag `--use_tpu=False`. This will use
the default devices available to TensorFlow on your machine. The checkpoints
created by CPU/GPU and TPU are all identical so it is possible to train on one
type of device and then evaluate/predict using the trained model on a different
device.

### Serve the exported model on CPU/GPU

To serve the exported model on CPU, set the flag `--data_format='channels_last'`
as inference on CPU only supports `channels_last`. Inference on GPU supports
both `channels_first` and `channels_last`.

### Using different ResNet configurations

The default ResNet-50 has been carefully tested with the default flags but
[`resnet_model.py`](resnet_model.py) includes a few other commonly used
configurations including ResNet-18, 34, 101, 152, 200. The 18 and 34 layer
configurations use residual blocks without bottlenecks and the remaining
configurations use bottleneck layers. The configuration can be controlled via
`--resnet_size`. Bigger models require more training time and more memory, thus
may require lowering the `--train_batch_size` to avoid running out of memory.

### Using your own data

To use your own data with this model, you first need to write an input pipeline
similar to [`imagenet_input.py`](imagenet_input.py). It is recommended to use
TFRecord format for storing your data on disk (see the [ImageNet dataset
download script][imagenet-download-format-as-tfrecord] for details) and
`tf.data.Dataset` for the actual pipeline. Then, simply replace the current
`imagenet_input` in [`resnet_main.py`](resnet_main.py) and adjust the dataset
constants.

### Benchmarking the training speed

Benchmarking code for [DAWNBench](http://dawn.cs.stanford.edu/benchmark/) can be
found under the [`benchmark/`](benchmark) subdirectory. The benchmarking code
imports the same models, inputs, and training regimes but includes some extra
checkpointing and evaluation.

Commit message:

Point to jpeg_to_tf_record
Simpler example of converting images to TF Records

models/official/resnet/README.md, after:

# ResNet-50 on TPU

## Prerequisites

### Setup a Google Cloud project

Follow the instructions at the [Quickstart Guide][quickstart-guide] to get a GCE
VM with access to a Cloud TPU.  It is also recommended that you try the [Cloud
TPU ResNet tutorial][resnet-tutorial], which covers both the quickstart and
training of the ResNet algorithm.

[quickstart-guide]: https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/quickstart
[resnet-tutorial]: https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/tutorials/resnet

To run this model, you will need:

* A GCE VM instance with an associated Cloud TPU resource
* A GCS bucket to store your training checkpoints (the "model directory")
* (Optional): The ImageNet training and validation data preprocessed into
  TFRecord format, and stored in GCS.

### Formatting the data

The data is expected to be formatted in TFRecord format, as generated by [this
script][imagenet-download-format-as-tfrecord].

If you do not have ImageNet dataset prepared, you can use a randomly generated
fake dataset to test the model. It is located at
`gs://cloud-tpu-test-datasets/fake_imagenet`.

[imagenet-download-format-as-tfrecord]: https://github.com/tensorflow/tpu/blob/master/tools/datasets/imagenet_to_gcs.py

## Training the model

Train the model by executing the following command (substituting the appropriate
values):

```
python resnet_main.py \
  --tpu=$TPU_NAME \
  --data_dir=$DATA_DIR \
  --model_dir=$MODEL_DIR
```

`$TPU_NAME` is the name of the TPU node, the same name that appears when you
run `gcloud compute tpus list`, or `ctpu ls`.  (When using the shell
created by `ctpu up`, this argument may not be necessary.)

`$MODEL_DIR` is a GCS location (a URL starting with `gs://` where both the GCE
VM and the associated Cloud TPU have write access, something like `gs://userid-
dev-imagenet-output/model`.  (TensorFlow can't create the bucket; you have to
create it with `gsutil mb <bucket>`.)  This bucket is used to save checkpoints
and the training result, so that the training steps are cumulative when you
reuse the model directory.  If you do 1000 steps, for example, and you reuse the
model directory, on a subsequent run, it will skip the first 1000 steps, because
it picks up where it left off.

`$DATA_DIR` is a GCS location to which both the GCE VM and associated Cloud TPU
have read access, something like `gs://cloud-tpu-test-datasets/fake_imagenet`.
This location is expected to contain files with the prefixes `train-*` and
`validation-*`.  The former pattern is used to match files used for the training
phase, the latter for the evaluation phase.

Each file is a series of `TFExample` records.  In the case of ResNet-50,
the `TFExample` records have a specific format, as follows:

```python
keys_to_features = {
    'image/encoded': tf.FixedLenFeature((), tf.string, ''),
    'image/format': tf.FixedLenFeature((), tf.string, 'jpeg'),
    'image/class/label': tf.FixedLenFeature([], tf.int64, -1),
    'image/class/text': tf.FixedLenFeature([], tf.string, ''),
    'image/object/bbox/xmin': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/bbox/ymin': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/bbox/xmax': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/bbox/ymax': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.float32),
    'image/object/class/label': tf.VarLenFeature(dtype=tf.int64),
}
```

The training and validation data can also be sourced from Cloud Bigtable:

```
python resnet_main.py \
  --tpu=$TPU_NAME \
  --model_dir=$MODEL_DIR \
  --bigtable_project=$PROJECT \
  --bigtable_instance=$INSTANCE \
  --bigtable_table=$TABLE
```

In this case, the `TFExample` records are stored one per row in a Bigtable.
Categories of data are arranged by row prefix, and the rows within that prefix
arranged by zero-filled indexes, e.g. `train_0000003892`.)

You can also specify the following arguments when sourcing data from Bigtable,
though they already have the right defaults for ResNet-50:

```
  --bigtable_train_prefix=train_ \        # row prefix for training rows
  --bigtable_eval_prefix=validation_ \    # row prefix for evaluation rows
  --bigtable_column_family=tfexample \
  --bigtable_column_qualifier=example
```

Note that even when sourcing input data from Bigtable, `$MODEL_DIR` must
still be a GCS location.

### Project and Zone

If you are not running this script on a GCE VM in the same project and zone as
your Cloud TPU, you will need to add the `--project` and `--zone` flags
specifying the corresponding values for the Cloud TPU you'd like to use.

This will train a ResNet-50 model on ImageNet with 1024 batch size on a single
Cloud TPU. With the default flags on everything, the model should train to
above 76% accuracy in around 17 hours (including evaluation time every
`--steps_per_eval` steps).

You can launch TensorBoard (e.g. `tensorboard -logdir=$MODEL_DIR`) to view loss
curves and other metadata regarding your training run.

> Note: if you launch TensorBoard on your GCE VM, be sure to configure either
> [SSH port forwarding][ssh-port-fwd] or [SOCKS proxy over SSH][socks-proxy] to
> connect to your GCE VM **securely (recommended)**.
>
> Alternatively, you can modify your GCE firewall rules to open a port, but this
> is **not recommended** as it enables **insecure** world-wide access for
> everyone.

[ssh-port-fwd]: https://cloud.google.com/solutions/connecting-securely#port-forwarding-over-ssh
[socks-proxy]: https://cloud.google.com/solutions/connecting-securely#socks-proxy-over-ssh

## Understanding the code

For more detailed information, read the documentation within each file.

* [`imagenet_input.py`](imagenet_input.py): Constructs the `tf.data.Dataset`
  input pipeline which handles parsing, preprocessing, shuffling, and batching
  the data samples.
* [`resnet_main.py`](resnet_main.py): Main code which constructs the
  TPUEstimator and handles training and evaluating the model.
* [`resnet_model.py`](resnet_model.py): ResNet model code which constructs the
  network via modular residual blocks or bottleneck blocks.
* [`resnet_preprocessing.py`](resnet_preprocessing.py): Useful utilities for
  preprocessing and augmenting ImageNet data for ResNet training. Significantly
  improves final accuracy.

## Additional notes

### About the model and training regime

The model is based on network architecture presented in [Deep Residual Learning
for Image Recognition](https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385) by Kaiming He, et. al.

Specifically, the model uses post-activation residual units for ResNet-18, and
34 and post-activation bottleneck units for ResNet-50, 101, 152, and 200. There
are a few differences to the model and training compared to the original paper:

* The preprocessing and data augmentation is slightly different. In particular,
  we have an additional step during normalization which rescales the inputs
  based on the stddev of the RGB values of the dataset.
* We use a larger batch size of 1024 (by default) instead of 256 and
  linearly scale the learning rate. In addition, we adopt the learning rate
  schedule suggested by [Accurate, Large Minibatch SGD: Training ImageNet in 1
  Hour](https://arxiv.org/abs/1706.02677) and train for 90 epochs.
* We use a slightly different weight initialization for batch normalization in
  the last batch norm per block, as inspired by the above paper.
* Evaluation is performed on a single center crop of the validation set rather
  than a 10-crop from the original paper.

### Training/evaluating/predicting on CPU/GPU

To run the same code on CPU/GPU, set the flag `--use_tpu=False`. This will use
the default devices available to TensorFlow on your machine. The checkpoints
created by CPU/GPU and TPU are all identical so it is possible to train on one
type of device and then evaluate/predict using the trained model on a different
device.

### Serve the exported model on CPU/GPU

To serve the exported model on CPU, set the flag `--data_format='channels_last'`
as inference on CPU only supports `channels_last`. Inference on GPU supports
both `channels_first` and `channels_last`.

### Using different ResNet configurations

The default ResNet-50 has been carefully tested with the default flags but
[`resnet_model.py`](resnet_model.py) includes a few other commonly used
configurations including ResNet-18, 34, 101, 152, 200. The 18 and 34 layer
configurations use residual blocks without bottlenecks and the remaining
configurations use bottleneck layers. The configuration can be controlled via
`--resnet_size`. Bigger models require more training time and more memory, thus
may require lowering the `--train_batch_size` to avoid running out of memory.

### Using your own data

To use your own data with this model, you first need to write an input pipeline
similar to [`jpeg_to_tf_record.py`](jpeg_to_tfrecord). 
It is recommended to use TFRecord format for storing your data on disk and
`tf.data.Dataset` for the actual pipeline. Then, pass in the dataset
constants as command-line parameters to resnet_main.py. 

[jpeg_to_tfrecord]: https://github.com/tensorflow/tpu/blob/master/tools/datasets/jpeg_to_tf_record.py


### Benchmarking the training speed

Benchmarking code for [DAWNBench](http://dawn.cs.stanford.edu/benchmark/) can be
found under the [`benchmark/`](benchmark) subdirectory. The benchmarking code
imports the same models, inputs, and training regimes but includes some extra
checkpointing and evaluation.
